# Nintendo DS development guide  
## About  
This is open-source documentation that teaches the reader how to make games for the Nintendo DS using libnds with C++. Our objective is to make learning easier through an updated documentation that has good examples.

This documentation has two main sections: **Learning** and **Mechanics and quick information**. The learning section is used to learn deeply how to make games for the Nintendo DS. The mechanics and quick information section is used to teach some specific mechanics without needing previous knowledge about the library (ex., how to render images on screen). The previous knowledge that would be necessary in the mechanics section will be briefly explained based on the mechanics needs.

This documentation has some prerequisites; read the section "Prerequisites" for more details. It's also possible to collaborate with this documentation; read "How to collaborate" for more details.

## Prerequisites  
To understand these documentation codes, it's necessary to know how to code and have some knowledge of the C++ programming language. It mainly includes programming logic with C++ and how to use pointers. If you don't know how to code, you should search for tutorials that explain how to get started and which are the best tools for you. And if you know how to code but not in C++, you should learn it through tutorials as well.

## Learning  
* Is it legal to make games for the Nintendo DS (Homebrews)?  
* Setting up the environment  
* Infinite loop  
* Graphics  
* Texts  
* Inputs  
* Sounds  
* Understanding and setting up the make file

## Mechanics and quick information  
* How to show an image on screen  
* How to load a background  
* What is OAM?  
* What is DMA?  
* What is GRIT?  
* How to play a sound effect  
* How to play a song  
* How to display text on screen

# Collaboration  
## Rules  
These rules must be followed for your commit be approved   
* Be respectful in your text: Don't use a language that has swear words, is toxic, and/or is offensive  
* Don't write about politics or religion (even indirectly)  
* Don't add +18 content (like sexuality and violence)  
* Don't remake somebody else's work. If you want to collaborate on a done text, just review it (obs.: this rule doesn't apply for texts that are more than 50% outdated).  
* Your text should be concise, clear, and coherent. Basically, don't use hard words, and review your text after finishing it  
* Your text must have all references if any search is necessary  
* Texts generated by AIs are allowed since they follow the other rules, and (in the text itself) it is explicitly said that it was made by AIs (even if it was just partially) (you can specify which parts you wrote and which the AI wrote)  
    
## How to collaborate  
* If you want to make a suggestion, you can open an issue or make a pull request in the **To do** section  
* If you want to collaborate, you first have to read the rules to know how your text must be  
* After that, you have to choose some tasks. If you don't know what to do, you can check the **To do** section. It is important that your task be short, usually changing just one file. For example, instead of choosing "Translate the documentation for Spanish,", choose "Translate the installation section to Spanish." This way, other people will be able to collaborate on small tasks from this big tasks, and this increases efficiency.  
* After choosing the task, you must say that you're working on it through an issue  
* And then, when you finish the task, you can just make a pull request  
    
## Ways to collaborate  
You can collaborate any way you like. For example, you can translate some sections, add new sections based on what you've learned somewhere else, add a mechanic on "Mechanics and quick information", update some outdated information, fix English errors, add images, etc. However, it is important to follow the rules.